In this lesson, I'll show you how to create a new unit test using intelligent development environment
in a project that does not use Maven or Gradle to create a new unit test, I'll create a new jump project.
First, I'll click on New Project Button to create a new project.
Now we can create a new Java project using Maven or Gradle, but this time I'll create a new Java project
that does not use Maven or Gradle.
So I will select Java and then will click on the next button to continue.
I won't be creating project from a template, so I will skip this window and will click on next and
now I will give my project and name.
I will cook calculator will start with a very simple calculator example button.
Later in this course we will look at more complex use cases as well.
All right.
So now I will click on Finish Button to create a new project.
And here we go.
A new project is created and we have a source folder which is currently empty.
Let's create a new Java class to do that.
That will do right mouse click then select new general class and I will call this class calculator.
I will add a very simple challenge method.
Let's call it integer division.
All right, so now we have a method to test, and the method that you are testing is also called method
under test.
Before we can create a new G unit test for this method, we will need to create a test folder.
Currently, this project does not have a folder for test classes.
So to create a new test folder, I will select the project and then do right mouse click choose new
directory.
I will call the directory test and hit enter to let A.G. know that we want to use this directory for
test classes.
We will need to do right mouse click on it and then choose Mark Territory US and then select test sources.
And now we can create a new test class.
To create a new test class.
I will do right mouse click and then choose, generate and select test from the Test Library Dropdown
list.
I can select the unit version that I want to use for this unit test.
I will use G unit five of course.
And next we have this yellow bulb with the message that G Unit five library is not configured in this
module.
To fix this error, we will click on the fix button and this will add to Unit five library to our project.
All right.
I will not change anything here.
Now simply click.
Okay.
And next, he's a class lead and will call this class calculator test.
And it is a common convention to make your test classes end with a test.
So I will keep it as is.
The destination package will need to be the same as a package name for my calculator.
I don't have any package yet, so let's fix that.
I will cancel this window for now and I will move my calculator class from a default package into a
different one that I will create.
So I will do right mouse click and then choose refactor.
And then I will choose move this class to a package that I will create.
For example, chrome apps, developer block and heap on refactor.
All right, so now my calculator class is inside a package that I have just created, and I will try
creating a new unit test again.
So I will do right.
Mouse Click, Choose Generate Test Test Library G Unit five Class Name Calculator and the destination
package will be exactly the same package name as it is for the class I'm creating this test class for.
All right.
I will expand the window a little bit.
Next, we have in the rate section and it has a couple of minutes so at and teardown we will talk about
this method later so I will skip it for now.
And from the list of methods here, I will select the method for which I want to create a unit test
which is integer division method.
Right.
So now I can click on okay button and this will create a new test class with an empty test method.
If I expand my test folder here, I will have a package with exactly the same name as in my main application
sources folder with a test class.
All right, so we have a new unit as created, and at this moment, this is an empty test method.
It doesn't do anything.
And if I run it, it will pass.
So to run unit test, I will click on this play button.
And then I will choose a run in the division test method.
Our test method passed and we have a green checkmark next to the play button.
We have just clicked and also in the test report by default.
If test does not fail, it is considered a percent test.
So if you have a test method that does not assert any condition and does not throw any exceptions,
even if it is absolutely empty, it will pass.
And to see a failing test, we can intentionally fail it with a fail assertion.
For example, we will use fail with a message.
Like, for example, no implementation provided.
Now, if I run this test method, it should fail.
Let's try.
And we have a failing unit test method with a red exclamation mark next to the run button.
And also we do not see green checkmarks in the test report as well.
All right.
So this was just a demonstration of how you can create a new test class using intelligent development
environment in a very simple Java project.
And in the following list and I'll show you how to create a new project and a new test class using Eclipse
Development Environment.
If you do not use a claims development requirement, then please feel free to skip the following lesson.